

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


A Complete Guide to CPF Housing Grants for BTO and Resale Flats 




Ruth Lum


24th January 2019 

Breaking down 'chim' finance knowledge into manageable pieces so you don't have to. You can contribute your thoughts like Ruth here.


3 min readOne of the hottest topics you’d hear from a bunch of millennials or young adults who are looking to settle down: “Should I go for a BTO or a resale flat?”
Whether it’s you and your Significant Other, or hearing a friend grouse about the waiting times of his latest BTO… it’s definitely a topic that we pretty much can’t escape. (Much like all the NS-talk, right girls?!)
Besides HDB housing loans, there are also these CPF loans which are loans dedicated to aid Singaporeans in securing their (mostly) first home.

BTO and Resale Flats



 BTOResale




Waiting Time3-5 yearsASAP


Ave. Price (4-rm flat)$311,000$457,000


RenovationUsually more exp.Usually less exp.


Ave. Size90sqm104sqm


LocationPre-definedYour preference


Lease Period99 yearsShorter than 99-years



1. BTO: Brand new HDB Flats
These are the most common type of flats offered by our government. Mainly built for first time home buyers, they are offered at the lowest entry price possible, which also often leads to heavy demand and often tough to ballot for more popular sites.

Non-mature sites (eg. Punggol, Chua Chu Kang): 3 room ~$160,000
Mature sites (eg. Toa Payoh, Geylang): 3 room ~$380,000




ProsCons




Brand new as first occupantsNeed to wait 3 to 4 years before moving in


Lowest ever prices land subsidised by govtNeed to stay the MOP (Minimum occupancy) for 5 years


High appreciation potential to re-sellMany restrictions on who you can sell and rent to



2. Resale: Older HDB Flats
These are the next most common type of flats. However, this is on the secondary market, which also means the prices are set by demand and supply accordingly. From one HDB owner to others. It’s a free market and you can use sites like SRX, 99.co, and PropertyGuru to find your dream home.

Non-mature sites (eg. Punggol, Chua Chu Kang): 3 room ~$350,000
Mature sites (eg. Toa Payoh, Geylang): 3 room ~$450,000




ProsCons




Can come with some existing furnishingLimited appreciation potential (limited life)


Get to choose your locationsLimited subsidies available 


Can move in immediately after purchasePotential re-design needed (e.g hacking, ID)




Grants for BTO Flats
The available grants offered by HDB for the application of BTO flats are pegged to household income. This is so that lower-income households receive more help in securing a home.
Applicants of SBF and ROF flats are also eligible for the grants under BTO. However, if the selected SBF or ROF unit has a low remaining tenure, the grant amounts may be lower.



 BTOResale




Both first time applicantsAdditional CPF Housing Grant (AHG)Family Grant


Special CPF Housing Grant (SHG)Additional CPF Housing Grant (AHG)


One is a first-timer, the other is a second-timerAdditional CPF Housing Grant (Singles)Half Housing Grant


Special CPF Housing Grant (Singles)Additional CPF Housing Grant (AHG)


Both applicants are second-timersStep-Up CPF Housing GrantTop-Up Grant (previously received Singles Grant)


If one applicant is a foreigner (Non-Citizen Spouse Scheme)Additional CPF Housing Grant (Singles)Non-Citizen Spouse Scheme


Special CPF Housing Grant (Singles)


For SC/SPR households with the SPR spouse taking up citizenshipN/ACitizen Top-Up Grant


For applicants buying a resale flat within 4km of their parentsN/AEnhanced Proximity Housing Grant



Case 1: You and your partner are both first-time applicants

Additional CPF Housing Grant (AHG) – Up to $40,000 with monthly household income capped at $5,000
Special CPF Housing Grant (SHG) – Up to $40,000, with monthly household income capped at $8,500. This grant is only applicable for purchase of 2-room Flexi, 3-room, or 4-room flat in a non-mature estate.

Case 2: One of you is a first-timer and the other a second-timer
The Half-Housing Grant amount is half of the Family Grant that you and your spouse/ spouse-to-be would qualify for if both of you were first-timer applicants.

Additional CPF Housing Grant (Singles) – Grant amount of up to $20,000. Half of the average household monthly income for the 12 months before the flat application must not exceed $2,500.
Special CPF Housing Grant (SHG) (Singles) – Up to $20,000. To qualify, half of the average monthly household income for the 12 months prior to flat application date must be within $4,250. Only applicable for purchase of four-room and smaller flats in non-mature estates.

Case 3: Both applicants are second-timers

Step-Up CPF Housing Grant -$15,000, only for couples who are living in a two-room subsidised flat and wish to apply for a new 3-room flat in a non-mature estate.

Case 4: If one applicant is a foreigner (Non-Citizen Spouse Scheme)

Additional CPF Housing Grant (AHG) (Singles) – Grant amount of up to $20,000. Half of the average household monthly income for the 12 months before the flat application must not exceed $2,500.
Special CPF Housing Grant (SHG) (Singles) – Up to $20,000. To qualify, half of the average monthly household income for the 12 months prior to flat application date must be within $4,250. Only applicable for purchase of four-room and smaller flats in non-mature estates.


Grants for Resale Flats
Case 1: You and your partner are both first-time applicants

Family Grant – $50,000 for four-room flats or smaller and $40,000 for five-room flats or larger. Monthly household income capped at $12,000 (or $18,000 for extended family applicants).
Additional CPF Housing Grant (AHG) – up to $40,000, with monthly household income capped at $5,000.

Case 2: One of you is a first-timer and the other a second-timer

Half-Housing Grant – Up to $25,000, monthly household income capped at $12,000 (or $18,000 for extended family applicants).

Case 3: For applicants who have previously received a Singles Grant

Top Up Grant

The Top-Up Grant amount is the difference between the Family Grant that you now qualify for, minus the Singles Grant amount that you had previously received.
Only those with monthly household income capped at $12,000 are eligible.
Case 4: For Singapore Citizen/Singapore Permanent Resident (SC/SPR) households with the SPR spouse now obtaining Singapore Citizenship status

Citizen Top Up Grant – $10,000 when a qualifying household member becomes a Singapore Citizen

Case 5: For applicants buying a resale flat within 4km of their parents (including nearby towns)

Enhanced Proximity Housing Grant (PHG) – Up to $30,000


Conclusion: Find what fits you best
Purchasing a home is a big decision. Make the right calculations to decide if the financial stress is manageable, and consider if what you are applying for gives you a comfortable repayment amount and duration on top of the grants that you are eligible for.


Whether you love or hate our content... WE WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU THINK! 

Comments
#wpdevar_comment_1 span,#wpdevar_comment_1 iframe{width:100% !important;} 
