

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


What Happens To The BTO Following A Death? 




Guest Contributor


18th December 2018 

You can contribute your thoughts like Guest here.


3 min readFor Property Investing, the Seedly team worked closely with Property Guru, who is an expert in the field, to curate unbiased, non-sponsored content to add value back to our readers.
Disclaimer: This is not a sponsored post. Opinions expressed in the article should not be taken as investment advice. Please do your own due diligence.
If you have any questions, feel free to discuss them with Seedly Community here.

HDB has guidelines to help individuals navigate the process and are on hand to offer additional support should the resident have questions. All one is required to do is email the specific HDB branch managing their flat and the officer will help walk them through the steps. However, for this article, we will cover what some of those steps and processes are.
Demise of joint-owner
When the joint-owner passes away, their share in the interest of the flat will be transferred to the remaining owners.
As the remaining family member or single occupier, you can take sole possession of the flat provided you are:

a Singaporean Citizen (SC) or Singapore Permanent Resident (SPR)
at least 21-years-old and you fulfil HDB’s other eligibility and conditions to owning a flat.

A Notice of Death must also be lodged to the SLA (Singapore Land Authority). To facilitate this, the sole occupier may appoint their own lawyer or engage one through HDB’s legal department.
When lodging the Notice of Death, the sole occupier must bring along their identity card (or in the situation where there are more than one joint-owners, then all relevant identity cards), the original death certificate of the deceased and a duplicate lease if there is any. All registration and conveyancing fees will be paid during the application by the relevant party.
The demise of the sole owner/tenant-in-common
When the sole owner or tenant-in-common passes away, their share in the flat will be distributed per their will. If no will was set before the life event occurred, then the flat custody will be subject to the Intestate Succession Act and a court order will be necessary to acquire legal authority to manage the deceased’s flat. The eligibility criteria are the same as above with the caveat of an existing will. If there is a will, then the deceased’s family will need to apply for a Grant of Probate through a private lawyer. This court order will grant the Executor who is the person named in the will, the legal authority to manage the deceased’s estate. If a will is absent, then the interest in the flat will be distributed per the Intestate Success Act. The family will need the Grant of Letters of Administration.