

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


12 Halloween Costume Ideas Under $10 That People Will Remember You For 




Ruth Lum


10th October 2018 

Breaking down 'chim' finance knowledge into manageable pieces so you don't have to. You can contribute your thoughts like Ruth here.


2 min read
Halloween, according to Google, falls on Wednesday, 31st October.
Clubs, restaurants, workplaces and schools have Halloween dress-up parties planned, and if you have one to attend but have absolutely no clue what to dress up as, we’ve got you covered.
Most of these costumes are quick and easy to make, but if you’d rather purchase one, scroll to the bottom section for some brilliant ideas.


Easy DIY costumes
1. Stick with the classics

Image credit: Laughtard
What you’ll need:

Full white outfit
Cardboard
Scissors
White paint
A partner to complete the oreo pair

2. Pacman and Pacwoman

Image credit: Laughtard
What you’ll need:

Dark/black shirts
Craft paper
Scissors
Double-sided tape
A cheeky attitude

3. Simple, cheap, under 5 mins

Image credit: Olivia Gagnon
What you’ll need:

A stack of newspapers
Tape
Large jacket or cardigan that is easy to open
An enthusiastic flashing habit

4. A very relatable costume

What you’ll need:

Black top
Cardboard / craft paper
Double-sided tape
A half-enthusiastic attitude

Optional:

Black and white face paint

5. For those into something a bit more tongue-in-cheek

Image credit: Tumblr user geolovesmyhugs(left), Kathryn Wirsing(right)
What you’ll need:

Black top
Colour samples, variations of grey (50 pcs)
Double sided tape
A slick smile

6. Emoji Frenzy

Image credit: naomi_yyz on Instagram
What you’ll need:

Pink long-sleeved shirt
Dark cropped hairstyle/black wig
Dark lipstick
Sick poses

7. Your favourite sitcom couple
(Jake and Amy from popular sitcom Brooklyn99, in case there is anyone on this Earth who doesn’t watch this fabulous show)
(it’s also on Netflix, btw)


Images credit: Reddit user bitcoin_creator(left), allybal
What you’ll need:
Amy –

Formal shirt
Blazer and work pants
Slick hair tied into a ponytail
Lots of witty insults

Jake –

Blue jacket
Faux police badge
Checkered shirt
Lots of witty jokes

You could dress up as any of your favourite characters. Just remember to act and talk the part!
8. Babe Magnet

Image credit: heath_not_keith
What you’ll need:

Any shirt
Several barbie dolls
Needle and thread to secure barbies on you
A sheepish smile


Buy ready-made costumes online
Still haven’t found a Halloween costume that you like?
We’ve gathered several links to hilarious costumes that are sure to make heads turn with minimal effort and at an affordable price
(Refer to this Taobao guide if you are not sure how shopping on Taobao it works!)
9. Assorted Inflated Suits
 

 
10. Assorted Horror Masks

11. Sexy nurse costume

Image credit: hauntedhollow
12. Assorted Witches Costume

Image credit: Lovenovelty flagship store

Buy Halloween items in-store
For really last-minute purchases, hop into these stores for a quick-fix.
1.Party shops (Rochor…etc.)
2. Spotlight

Spotlight store locator

3. Daiso

Daiso store locator

4. Supermarkets

Islandwide

5. Popular Stationery

Popular store locator

 
Our verdict
DIY costumes are still our favourite because you can customise it to fit the latest trends. Making these costumes yourself offer a refreshing change from the usual outfits you see online or in stores, and you can be sure your costume is pretty damn unique.
There’s a costume for everyone – Happy Halloween!



Whether you love or hate our content... WE WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU THINK! 

Comments
#wpdevar_comment_1 span,#wpdevar_comment_1 iframe{width:100% !important;} 
