

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


Having a McDonald’s Wedding In HK: Is It Really Cheaper Than SG? 




Rachel Yeo


11th October 2019 

Breaking down complicated financial pieces into idiot-proof articles. You can contribute your thoughts like Rachel here.


4 min readIf you’ve not seen the news, McDonald’s Hong Kong outlets are providing McWedding party packages for those who want to declare their love for McDonald’s, and each other!
With their wedding packages at just  S$525.46, we’d think that the price of having a McDonald’s wedding in Hong Kong, inclusive of plane tickets, will still be cheaper than an actual wedding in Singapore!
Is this really the case? We decided to calculate the costs to find out!
Getting Married At McDonald’s: A Step-By-Step Guide
Source: Mothership, Screenshot from Safiya Nygaard | YouTube
For those who want to get married in McDonald’s, you will be treated to a Happiness Party package, which costs just S$525.46 (HK $2,999) for a party with 20 guests. If you happen to have more than 20 guests, there will be an additional fee of SS$8.76 (HKD $50) per guest.
The wedding package includes the following goodies:

2 hours Venue Renting
Wedding gifts for 20 guests
Any McDonalds’ food that costs within S $175.21 (HKD $1,000)
20 pieces of invitation cards and 20 pieces of Thank You cards
Wedding Gift for the couple
A choice between:



Basic Venue Decoration Chinese Wedding Party 




All About Love Balloon Set Double Happiness Balloon Decoration 


Table Cloth and Seat Cover for Wedding Party Table Cloth and Seat Cover For Chinese Wedding Party 


McDonald's Double Apple Pie box cake display McDonald's Double Apple Pie Box Cake Display For Chinese Wedding Party.




Basic Audio Equipment
Party MC (speaker)

Here’s a quick look at their catalogue of gifts and decorations:
Source: McDonald’s Hong Kong | Website
1. Registering Your Marriage (ROM)
Source: Giphy
Do note, however, that if you were to do your wedding in a McDonald’s in Hong Kong, their wedding package does not include the solemnization and registration of marriage, so you will have to do that in Singapore first before flying over to have your wedding in Hong Kong.
If you’re a Singapore citizen or PR, it’ll cost you $42 to get registered at the Registry Of Marriage (ROM).
2. Book Your McWedding
Source: Mothership, Screenshot from Safiya Nygaard | YouTube
There are only 5 locations in Hong Kong that provide McWedding parties, so make sure you’re fast in booking the venue! To do so, find their store locator, set your filter to McDonald’s Wedding Party, and contact each store to check their availability before booking it!
You have to pay S$175.21 (HKD $1,000) as a deposit upon signing the order form.
3. Flying To Hong Kong
Source: Giphy 
Assuming that you, your partner, and 20 other guests are flying to Hong Kong for your McWedding, here’s an estimated cost of flying to Hong Kong for your wedding (round-trip):
Source: Skyscanner



Flight Provider Cost Per Person (Round Trip)Cost For Party: 22 Pax 




Budget: Scoot and JetstarS$337 S$7,414



4. Additional Costs Not Covered By McDonald’s
Wedding Bands
Source: Blue Nile
You’ll definitely need wedding bands for your wedding, and unless you decide to use their inflatable balloon rings as your wedding band, McDonald’s won’t be swooping in to provide you with a pair of wedding rings.
Here, in line with our previous article on the average cost of weddings in Singapore, we’ll keep our estimation the same for wedding bands at $800. 
Bridal Gown And Suit
For guys, your options are as follows:

Online shops like ASOS have suit options starting from as low as $150.
Rental shops offer a variety of suits and their prices start from $200 to $500
Visiting Thailand for a vacation any time soon? You can pick up a bespoke suit for about $300.

The price of gowns ranges widely and can start from as low as $500 to higher than $1,500. Assuming that you’re doing your wedding at McDonald’s, we also made the assumption that the groom buys his suit, and the bride rents one gown for the event. The estimated cost fo this is: ~$1,500-$2,000
Accommodation (1 Night)
The flight to Hong Kong is around 4 hours, and assuming that the wedding is held in the evening (McDonald’s only allows bookings for wedding from 6-10pm), it means that you will have to pay for accommodation in Hong Kong for a night.
A stay in a standard hotel like Holiday Inn costs ~S$120 a night for a room. If you are catering for 22 people, that means you will need 11 rooms:



Hotel Cost Per Person, 1 night. Cost For Party: 22 Pax 




E.g Holiday Inn Express S$120/night S$2,640



Total Cost Of A Wedding In McDonald’s
For a wedding at Hong Kong’s McDonald’s with 20 guests, the cost of your wedding will add up to the following:



 Cost in SGD




ROM/ Solemnization $42


McWedding Happiness Party $525.46


Flights To Hong Kong And Back (22 pax)~S$7,414 


Wedding Bands $800 


Bridal Gown and Groom's Suit ~$1,500


Accommodation (1 night, 22 pax) $2,640


Total Cost Of Wedding $12,921.46



How Does This Compare To The Cost Of An Average Wedding In Singapore?
Previously, we’ve calculated the average cost of an ‘Average Singapore Wedding’ to be S$27,610.

Here, we did a side-by-side comparison of both types of weddings, and took a look at some of the key differences:



 Wedding In Hong Kong McDonalds An 'Average' Wedding In Singapore 




N.o Of Pax22100 


Total Cost S$$12,921.46S$27,610


Main Differences Include Flight costs and accommodation for friends and relatives.Includes: Car Rental, Wedding Photography, Gifts and Dowry, Flowers and Decorations. 


Smaller groups, more casual and intimate wedding setting. Larger weddings, more convenient because it's in SG.



From the quick price comparison above, having a wedding in McDonald’s in Hong Kong costs half as much as a wedding in Singapore. Of course, while
Differences And Things To Consider
1. Convenience
Planning your wedding in a McDonalds’ in Hong Kong isn’t going to be an easy feat. You have to take into consideration factors such as flight and accommodation bookings for your guests.
2. Wedding Theme
Source: Mothership, Screenshot from Safiya Nygaard | YouTube
Costs aside, one important factor of consideration is also the quality and theme of your wedding. Although you pay half as much to have your wedding in McDonald’s, quality is definitely compromised. You will not be getting an elegant wedding set up nor restaurant-quality food. It is necessary to consider whether i
3. Safety Issues
An outbreak of violent protests has been happening in Hong Kong for the past few months. It’s not advisable to visit Hong Kong at this point in time, especially when there are people going around burning shops and buildings during the protests.
4. Scale Of Wedding
With all that said, there is still value in holding smaller, more intimate wedding gatherings. With an overseas wedding, you will tend to filter and invite only those who are closest to you, so that may be a bonus when it comes to holding your wedding at a McDonald’s in Hong Kong.
Is It Worth It?
Having your wedding at McDonald’s is a quirky idea. However, with the additional inconveniences and unnecessary costs involved, I personally won’t consider holding a wedding in a McDonald’s in Hong Kong. With many alternative wedding venues popping up in Singapore, holding your wedding at a McDonald’s overseas may not be your cheapest option as well.
Maybe I’ll just wait for McDonald’s to open their McWedding Parties in Singapore so that I can have my wedding at $500 bucks. See how lah hor.


Whether you love or hate our content... WE WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU THINK! 

Comments
#wpdevar_comment_1 span,#wpdevar_comment_1 iframe{width:100% !important;} 
