

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


You Will Inherit NOTHING 




Guest Contributor


6th October 2019 

You can contribute your thoughts like Guest here.


1 min readEvery family is different.
Some individuals may start off their financial journey with a bit of an advantage if their family is wealthier.
Some may find themselves inheriting a huge sum of money from their loved ones halfway through their journey. 

But in some cases, we just have to build our wealth from scratch.
              
No idea what you can do to earn some side income? Turn your hobby into a stable stream of income or try out some of these low commitment side hustles.

Chottomatte!
Please don’t empty your bank and randomly choose a stock to invest your $10k…
Remember to do your research so you know what you’re getting into! There are different approaches on how you can diversify your portfolio, depending on your perspective on investing.
   
Looking at how expensive some of the recent BTO launches are, it’s no wonder some of us are worried about being able to afford the monthly payments.
Getting your first home can be stressful, so it’s important that both of you discuss and plan out your finances together, and take a look at the potential grants that are available for your household.

    
  
Since we’re on the topic of mindsets, don’t forget to take a step back and get back in touch with your personal core values while beating the personal finance game.    
Source: all comics by The Woke Salaryman

Seedly Guest Contributor: The Woke Salaryman

For this series of comics that are related to all things personal finance, the Seedly team worked closely with The Woke Salaryman, to bring you useful sh*t which you can apply to your everyday life.
The Woke Salaryman is the brainchild of a Singapore-based duo that aims to help people reach financial independence early. It is the quintessential page for people living in Singapore who earn a median salary of $4,500 and didn’t inherit their fortunes from their parents.
If you have any questions with regard to personal finance and retiring early, feel free to discuss them with the Seedly Community here.
Read other comics by The Woke Salaryman:

The Only 5Cs That Matter In 2019
Driving Grab Is Not Substitute For A Long-Term Career
PSA: Your Kids Are NOT Your Retirement Plan
Can Money Buy You Happiness?
Invest Or Die
Why Your Wedding Should Not Be The Most Expensive Day Of Your Life
Why It’s Never Too Early To Plan For Your Retirement
Is Owning A Car A True Measure Of Financial Success?
Delayed Gratification: Predicting Our Likelihood Of Success In Life
How Can You Save Money While Travelling



Whether you love or hate our content... WE WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU THINK! 

Comments
#wpdevar_comment_1 span,#wpdevar_comment_1 iframe{width:100% !important;} 
