

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


These 3 Companies Could Multiply Your Wealth Over Time 




Guest Contributor


20th August 2019 

You can contribute your thoughts like Guest here.


4 min readEvery investor is on the lookout for companies that can grow their earnings and cash flow over the long term.
Such companies qualify as great candidates to hold for the long term, as the value of the business will steadily increase over time, and the investor may also enjoy higher levels of dividends along the way.
The problem, as always, is in finding companies that display strong business moats, prudent management, and a sturdy, well-thought-out long-term plan.
In order to find such companies, investors need to look out for several traits:

a large (and hopefully) growing market
management with a long-term strategic plan and vision, and
a strong market presence that can allow such companies to penetrate into either new segments or new territories.

Here are three companies I believe possess such traits and have the potential to grow and multiply your investment over time.
Disclaimer: This is not a sponsored post. Opinions expressed in the article should not be taken as investment advice. Please do your own due diligence.

1. iFast Corporation Limited

iFast Corporation Limited (SGX: AIY) is a financial technology (fintech) company that operates a portal for the distribution and purchase of financial products such as equities, fixed income, and unit trusts.
The group is present in Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, India, and China and acts as a middleman between investors and product sellers.
As of 30 June 2019, iFast had assets under administration (AUA) of S$9.04 billion, which was a record high for the group since the business was started in 2000.
CEO Lim Chung Chun believes the group still has a long runway for growth as there is a large addressable market for wealth management in Asia that has not been adequately served by existing players.
Source: Straits Times
This is why the group has a long-term goal of growing its AUA to S$100 billion by 2028.
iFast is also the pioneer in the fintech industry, and its first-mover advantage has given it a dominant share of the market, despite the appearance of other competitors.
By staying abreast of the latest demands and needs of the market, iFast has consistently stayed ahead of the curve and has remained at the forefront of innovation when it comes to addressing clients’ pressing needs.
I believe there is significant room for the group to grow and expand its market share over time.
2. Haw Par Corporation Ltd

Haw Par Corporation Ltd (SGX: H02) is a conglomerate with four major divisions: healthcare, leisure, property, and investments.
Its healthcare division owns the iconic global brand Tiger Balm, which manufactures a range of pain patches, ointments, and other medicinal products for use in sports and for injuries. The group also owns an aquarium asset in Thailand and several properties in Singapore and Malaysia.
Tiger Balm has been growing steadily over the years to dominate the bulk of Haw Par’s earnings, and there is significant room for this growth to continue over the years.
Source: Tiger Balm
Haw Par continues to introduce new products and to target the sports segment in Western countries, and it’s positioned to do well as the brand is now ubiquitous in many countries. The group has a strong market share in its healthcare division, and there is great potential to grow this further over time.
3. Raffles Medical Group Ltd

Raffles Medical Group Ltd (SGX: BSL) runs a hospital and clinical services in Singapore and has a network of clinics in 14 cities within five countries. The group also owns two hospitals in China, one of which has opened in Chongqing province, while the other is still under construction in Shanghai.
CEO Loo Choon Seng is not one to rest on his laurels, even though he has built up RMG over the years into a strong and reputable healthcare institution. As Singapore’s healthcare space has become saturated with a limited available land area to construct more hospitals, the group decided to venture into China with its first overseas hospital opening and operating in Chongqing since January this year.
Source: Business Times
There is a second hospital being constructed in Shanghai that will begin operations in early 2020.
Dr Loo has also set his sights on extending RMG’s reach further into China — should these first two hospitals work out well — by constructing and opening even more hospitals to cater to the demand from Chinese. Over time, if these plans come to fruition, it will result in the group being able to significantly grow its revenue and net profit.
Want More In-Depth Analysis And Discussion?
Why not check out Seedly’s QnA and participate in the lively discussion surrounding stocks like iFast Corporation Limited (SGX: AIY), Haw Par Corporation Ltd (SGX: H02), Raffles Medical Group Ltd (SGX: BSL) and many more!
Stock Discussion on iFast Corporation
Stock Discussion on Raffles Medical Group Ltd
Stock Discussion on Haw Par Corporation Ltd

Seedly Guest Contributor: The Motley Fool

For our Stocks Analysis, the Seedly team worked closely with The Motley Fool, who is an expert in the field, to curate unbiased, non-sponsored content to add value back to our readers.
The Motley Fool offers stock market and investing information, offering people suggestions on how to take control of their money and make better financial decisions.
The Motley Fool Singapore primarily covers the Singapore market, though we also bring investing news from around the world. We also host a range of educational content, written for everyday people. We feel that the best person to make your financial decisions is you, and we want to help you take control of your own money. The Motley Fool also champions shareholder values and advocates tirelessly for the individual investor.
If you have any questions on the mentioned stocks, feel free to discuss them with the Seedly Community here.
Read other articles by The Motley Fool:

3 Recession-Proof Shares That Pay Steady Dividends
How To Build A Growth Or Dividend Portfolio With S$50,000
2 Singapore Blue-Chip Shares With Higher Dividend Yield Than Straits Times Index
Bad News: Investors Should Avoid SPH Shares
Which Is The Better Dividend Stock: DBS Group Or UOB?
8 Key Numbers To Understand CapitaLand Mall Trust Better
Ascendas REIT Vs Mapletree Industrial Trust: Which Is The Better Buy?
Singtel Vs Starhub: Which Stock Is The Better Buy?
2 Billion-Dollar REITs Yielding Above 6%
StarHub Shares Have Fallen 64% In 5 Years: Is It A Bargain Now?



Whether you love or hate our content... WE WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU THINK! 

Comments
#wpdevar_comment_1 span,#wpdevar_comment_1 iframe{width:100% !important;} 
