

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


Invest Or Die 




Guest Contributor


31st August 2019 

You can contribute your thoughts like Guest here.


1 min readDid you know, by putting all your money into the bank, you will be losing a huge sum of it due to inflation?
Here’s a quick calculation:
For example, Singapore’s inflation rate is around 2%, while the average bank gives you a 0.05% interest rate. If you have $100,000 in your bank, you will be losing $1,500 a year, just from inflation!
Convinced to put your money elsewhere? Here are some alternatives for you to consider:

Here’s How You Can Kickstart Your Investment Journey

Doing nothing and leaving your money in the bank is UNWISE as inflation eats away at your savings at almost 2.0% a year.
Consider passive investment options with long time horizons (like ETFs, bonds, and unit trusts)
Set up a simple regular investment plan, and set aside a sum of money for investing.
Understand that it is highly unlikely that you will lose a huge amount of money unless you ‘gamble’ and ‘speculate’ on certain stocks. Or take huge bets based on market talk.

Ready to start? Here’s a Cheat Sheet: Investment Products At A Glance that’ll be useful for you!

   

Seedly Guest Contributor: The Woke Salaryman

For this series of comics that are related to all things personal finance, the Seedly team worked closely with The Woke Salaryman, to bring you useful sh*t which you can apply to your everyday life.
The Woke Salaryman is the brainchild of a Singapore-based duo that aims to help people reach financial independence early. It is the quintessential page for people living in Singapore who earn a median salary of $4,500 and didn’t inherit their fortunes from their parents.
If you have any questions with regard to personal finance and retiring early, feel free to discuss them with the Seedly Community here.
Read other comics by The Woke Salaryman:

Why Your Wedding Should Not Be The Most Expensive Day Of Your Life
Why It’s Never Too Early To Plan For Your Retirement
Is Owning A Car A True Measure Of Financial Success?
Delayed Gratification: Predicting Our Likelihood Of Success In Life
How Can You Save Money While Travelling
Important Things I Had To Do To Save $100,000 Before 30 In Singapore



Whether you love or hate our content... WE WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU THINK! 

Comments
#wpdevar_comment_1 span,#wpdevar_comment_1 iframe{width:100% !important;} 
