

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


Do You Get All Your Money From Your HDB Sales Proceeds For Your Retirement? 




Cherie Tan


27th January 2019 

Turning finance into boba-sized pieces. One iced milk boba tea, please! You can contribute your thoughts like Cherie here.


3 min readPlanning To Sell Your Flat As Your Retirement Plan?
Common conversations heard over dinner,
“When you all grow up and all married liao, I will downgrade my house for my retirement.”
Honestly, I really thought it was a feasible retirement plan. It doesn’t sound all too bad when I first heard it back when I was young, in fact, it sounds like a terrific retirement plan! I believe this was what most of our parents had planned to do.
But, is it really as simple it seems? Like this equation below?




A Myth: 
3-Step Process to Get Money (in Cash) for My Retirement




1Sales Proceed from my current house


2Minus: Cost of New House (A Downgrade)


3Equals: My Retirement Savings (In Cash)





Yes, if you paid for your house using cash.
No, if you have used your CPF, HDB or bank loan to finance your home.

Sadly, the equation is more complication than it seems. Allow me to illustrate for you:



Register Your Intend to Sell
In order to sell your HDB, you have to let them know you are letting your unit go. (Right? Thanks, Sherlock.)
Meanwhile, additional fees are applicable to register your intentions to sell your HDB using the HDB Resale Portal.
The portal will guide you through your process:

Register Intent to Sell
Submit Resale Application
Acknowledge Resale Documents
Payment of Fees Online
Approval of Resale
Completion of Resale

More Details can be found on the HDB website.

1. Sales Proceed from Your Current Home
Here is an equation on how final sale proceeds that you can keep for your retirement would be:




Fact: Actual Sales Proceeds for Your Retirement





1Sales Proceed from my current house


2Less: Remaining Mortgage Loan (if not fully paid up)


3Less: CPF Monies Used (including Accrued Interest of 2.5%)


Part A:
CPF Used for DownpaymentPart B: 
CPF Used for Monthly Loan Repayment


4Less: Agent Commissions


5Less: Misc Costs & Fees 


6Less: Purchase of Next Home