

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


The Only 5Cs That Matter In 2019 




Guest Contributor


28th September 2019 

You can contribute your thoughts like Guest here.


1 min readWe may have different motivations for getting us out of bed and going to work every morning.
But one thing’s for sure, we all want to earn enough money so that we can live comfortably, or luxuriously for some.
However, have you stopped to wonder if you’re chasing an outdated dream?

Better plan ahead though, for you need to be earning upwards of $7,000 per month to afford either a car or a condo.

Well, I’m sure you’ve heard the phrase “Cash is King”, and it does hold some truth to it.
Having a proper cash flow allows you to invest and insure yourself so that you can enjoy the things you do without worrying about your finances.

 



Source: all comics by The Woke Salaryman

Seedly Guest Contributor: The Woke Salaryman

For this series of comics that are related to all things personal finance, the Seedly team worked closely with The Woke Salaryman, to bring you useful sh*t which you can apply to your everyday life.
The Woke Salaryman is the brainchild of a Singapore-based duo that aims to help people reach financial independence early. It is the quintessential page for people living in Singapore who earn a median salary of $4,500 and didn’t inherit their fortunes from their parents.
If you have any questions with regard to personal finance and retiring early, feel free to discuss them with the Seedly Community here.
Read other comics by The Woke Salaryman:

Driving Grab Is Not Substitute For A Long-Term Career
PSA: Your Kids Are NOT Your Retirement Plan
Can Money Buy You Happiness?
Invest Or Die
Why Your Wedding Should Not Be The Most Expensive Day Of Your Life
Why It’s Never Too Early To Plan For Your Retirement
Is Owning A Car A True Measure Of Financial Success?
Delayed Gratification: Predicting Our Likelihood Of Success In Life
How Can You Save Money While Travelling
Important Things I Had To Do To Save $100,000 Before 30 In Singapore



Whether you love or hate our content... WE WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU THINK! 

Comments
#wpdevar_comment_1 span,#wpdevar_comment_1 iframe{width:100% !important;} 
