

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


Amazon.sg Has Launched. Here’s How to Enjoy Free Delivery! 




Rebecca Liew


8th October 2019 

Lactose-intolerant, but also BS-intolerant. Having written for the likes of Marina Bay Sands and Time Out, I now spend my days saving up for my stationery shop retirement dream. You can contribute your thoughts like Rebecca here.


1 min readNote: This is in no way a sponsored post. All opinions are strictly our own. 

It’s happy days ahead, because Amazon today announced the launch of eCommerce site Amazon.sg in Singapore – and with it, free delivery on eligible orders with a minimum spend of S$40.
Here’s the other bonus: expect speedy delivery times of between two to three days on your purchase.
Better yet if you’re a Prime member, because you’ll enjoy the following perks:

Free domestic one-day delivery with no minimum spend (on eligible items)
For Amazon International Store orders, free international shipping on eligible products over S$60.

We’ll discuss Prime perks in greater detail below.
Best Discounted Items on Amazon.sg
With so large a selection of categories, though, where should you start?

We’re here to help with that; these are some exclusive deals on Amazon.sg you might want to consider:

Consumer Electronics: 30% off brands including Bose, Sonos and Fitbit (!!)
Newly-released video games: Up to 20% off
Toys: 20% off selected toys including top board games, LEGO and Nerf
Baby Products: 30% off brands including Philips Avent and Maxi Cosi
Books: 25% off bestsellers and a range of children’s books, including those from Book Depository

Is Amazon.sg The Same As Amazon Prime?
In short: no, although being an Amazon Prime member allows you to reap more benefits from Amazon.sg, and the Amazon ecosystem as a whole.
Amazon.sg is an online megastore (that can be accessed via desktop or mobile app), but it also functions as a platform for Singapore businesses to sell their products.
So if you’re an Amazon.sg customer, you might want to consider getting Amazon Prime membership. For S$2.99/month, you’ll enjoy the following benefits – in addition to the previously mentioned free one-day delivery:

30-min early access to promos
Access to Prime Now, an online grocery delivery service that guarantees you receive your order within two hours – and includes free delivery!
Access to Prime Video

How To Get Amazon Prime For Free
New sign-ups enjoy a month-long trial – and sure, it’s not forever…but we’d never turn down a steal.
Would you use Amazon.sg, and why? Tell us in our Seedly Personal Finance Community Page on Facebook!


Whether you love or hate our content... WE WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU THINK! 

Comments
#wpdevar_comment_1 span,#wpdevar_comment_1 iframe{width:100% !important;} 
