

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS): All You Need to Know About DPS In 5 Minutes 




Ming Feng


13th June 2019 

A stint in Bloomberg gifted me with a beer belly, which only grew larger when I moved on to become a Professional Trader. Now I turn caffeine into digestible finance-related content. You can contribute your thoughts like Ming Feng here.


5 min read“She will be bringing her mother to Japan on their last family trip.”
This was a true incident. A friend of mine who has just graduated and had little savings then found out that her mum had limited time left.
The amount claimed from the Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS) allowed the family one last holiday together to their mum’s favourite destination.
TL; DR – Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS) in short

 
Your ultimate guide to everything related to Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS):

What Is Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS)?
Who will be automatically covered under the Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS)?
How Much Is The Premium For Dependendants’ Protection Scheme (DPS)?
Is the Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS) really the best in the market?
Benefits of Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS)
Am I currently insured by Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS)?
Pre-existing illnesses and medical condition not eligible for Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS)
How to claim Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS)? 



What Is Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS)?
Dependants’ Protection Scheme is a term-life insurance scheme that provides insured members and their family a basic coverage of up to S$46,000, in the event that the insured members suffer from a Terminal Illness, Total Permanent Disability or pass away. This coverage is worldwide.
Under DPS, the sum assured is paid out in the event of:

Death
Terminal Illness (an illness that a registered medical practitioner under the Medical Registration Act certifies is expected to result in death within 12 months)
Total Permanent Disability, where one:
Loses the ability to take part in any employment permanently or
experience the total permanent loss of physical function of both eyes/ two limbs/ one eye and one limb

Back to top

Who will be automatically covered under the Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS)?
One will be automatically included under the coverage of Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS) as long as he is

between the age of 21 and 60 years old
a Singapore Citizen or Permanent Resident (PR)
made his first working contribution to the Central Provident Fund (CPF)

Back to top

How Much Is The Premium For Dependendants’ Protection Scheme (DPS)?
The premium varies according to age, as of last birthday.
This is the annual premium for DPS, depending on your age:



Age 
(According to last birthday)Yearly Premium




34 years old and belowS$36


35 - 39 years oldS$48


40 - 44 years oldS$84


45 - 49 years oldS$144


50 - 54 years oldS$228


55 - 59 years oldS$260



As long as there is sufficient fund in his CPF accounts, the premiums will be fully deducted from there. Should one does not have enough fund in his CPF Ordinary Account (OA), premiums can be deducted from his CPF Special Account (SA) too.
This means that one does not need to pay out of his pocket to be covered.
Back to top

Is the Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS) really the best in the market? – NO, when it comes to cost!
While DPS looks really affordable, a quick comparison by Straits Times provides a better insight.

Here are the total premiums payable as compared to NTUC Income’s iTerm:



AgeNumber of years till age 60DPS PremiumiTerm Premium
(for Female)iTerm Premium
(for Male in S$)




2535 YearsS$4,180S$1,716.75S$2,268


3525 YearsS$3,820S$1,897.75S$2,306.25


4515 YearsS$3,160S$1,698.75S$2,294.25


555 YearsS$1,300S$773.50S$1,080



Source: Providend
The figures above are as of 15 June 2017.

If one keeps his DPS throughout his working years from age 25 to 60, the total premiums turn out to be S$4,180.
This is due to DPS premiums increasing significantly from age 45 onwards as shown above.
Hence, it is possible to get a cheaper alternative in the market.

Back to top

Benefits of Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS)
As seen above, you can actually source for cheaper term insurance plans from other insurance providers.
Taking costs out of the equation, there are actually a few benefits to DPS that can help Singaporeans decide better.
The benefits of DPS are that:

Provides family members with some money in case of unforeseen circumstances.
You can pay for it using your CPF monies, which otherwise would have been illiquid anyway. (Might as well right?)
The premiums are cheaper than most competitors at for age 40 and below. This helps especially when below 40 years old is the phase where our income is low with a whole lot of financial commitments.

Back to top
Am I currently insured by Dependants’ Protection Scheme (DPS)?
To check if one is currently under DPS’s coverage, here are the steps.

Head over to the CPF website.