

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


How Does Jumbo Group Ltd Make Money? 




Guest Contributor


3rd September 2019 

You can contribute your thoughts like Guest here.


3 min readWhen investing, it is important to understand each investment’s underlying business, how it is performing and also how it generates revenue and cash flows.
Without a proper grasp of how a business is run, the investor risks losing money when something goes wrong – so it’s imperative for all investors that they understand what they are investing in.
Today, let’s take a closer look at a home-grown food and beverage company – Jumbo Group Ltd (SGX: 42R).

As a recap, Jumbo is one of Singapore’s leading multi-dining food and beverage (F&B) establishments. Its network of F&B outlets spans multiple cities such as:

Singapore
Shanghai
Beijing
Taipei
Bangkok
Tokyo, and
Osaka

Disclaimer: This is not a sponsored post. Opinions expressed in the article should not be taken as investment advice. Please do your own due diligence.

Serving Up Tasty Dishes
Jumbo first started out with its first outlet in 1987 at the East Coast Seafood Centre, and over the years, its name became synonymous with Singapore’s chilli crab.
Aside from its trademark dish, the restaurant also serves up a wide array of fresh seafood dishes across its current six outlets in Singapore.
Jumbo makes its money by serving great seafood dishes to both locals and tourists, and it has also made a name for itself as the go-to place for chilli crab.
An Array Of Brands
Aside from its main seafood business, Jumbo has also invested in an array of different brands across a wide range of local fare.
Source: Ng Ah Sio Bak Kut Teh | Facebook
These include brands such as:

Ng Ah Sio Bak Kut Teh (peppery pork rib soup)
Chui Huay Lim Teochew Cuisine (Teochew classic dishes)
Chao Ting (Teochew rice in broth)
JPot (Singapore-style hotpot)

By diversifying away from its core seafood restaurant, management hopes to capture a wider base of customers and appeal to a larger crowd of consumers.
These brands are able to bring in multiple sources of revenue for the group over time.
Franchising As A Strategy
Source: Jumbo Group May 2019 Presentation Slides
From the above table, you can see that Jumbo has a total of 32 outlets spread across 11 cities in Asia.
However, of these 32 outlets, eight of them are franchised. Jumbo has astutely made use of a franchising strategy to accelerate its expansion plans into other Asian countries such as Thailand and Vietnam.
In such an arrangement, Jumbo will allow the franchisee the right to use their brand name in order to set up restaurants and food outlets, and the group will collect a franchise fee or a portion of the franchisee’s income (depending on the specific clauses within the franchise contract) in exchange for this privilege.
Far-Sighted Expansion Plans
Plans are afoot to open even more outlets serving different cuisines, with a second Tsui Wah Hong Kong-style outlet to open in Singapore, a second Jumbo Seafood restaurant in South Korea and two more Ng Ah Sio outlets in China and Taiwan – all within the next 12 months.
Management is not standing still as it plans to open even more outlets in the near future, and may even bring in additional brands under its belt.
Want More In-Depth Analysis And Discussion?
Why not check out Seedly’s QnA and participate in the lively discussion surrounding stocks like Jumbo Group (SGX: 42R) and many more!
Stock Discussion on Jumbo Group Ltd

Seedly Guest Contributor: The Motley Fool

For our Stocks Analysis, the Seedly team worked closely with The Motley Fool, who is an expert in the field, to curate unbiased, non-sponsored content to add value back to our readers.
The Motley Fool offers stock market and investing information, offering people suggestions on how to take control of their money and make better financial decisions.
The Motley Fool Singapore primarily covers the Singapore market, though we also bring investing news from around the world. We also host a range of educational content, written for everyday people. We feel that the best person to make your financial decisions is you, and we want to help you take control of your own money. The Motley Fool also champions shareholder values and advocates tirelessly for the individual investor.
If you have any questions on the mentioned stocks, feel free to discuss them with the Seedly Community here.
Read other articles by The Motley Fool:

4 Singapore Stocks With Growing Dividends To Consider For Your Retirement Portfolio
These 3 Companies Could Multiply Your Wealth Over Time
How To Build A Growth Or Dividend Portfolio With S$50,000
2 Singapore Blue-Chip Shares With Higher Dividend Yield Than Straits Times Index
Bad News: Investors Should Avoid SPH Shares
Which Is The Better Dividend Stock: DBS Group Or UOB?
8 Key Numbers To Understand CapitaLand Mall Trust Better
Ascendas REIT Vs Mapletree Industrial Trust: Which Is The Better Buy?
Singtel Vs Starhub: Which Stock Is The Better Buy?



Whether you love or hate our content... WE WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU THINK! 

Comments
#wpdevar_comment_1 span,#wpdevar_comment_1 iframe{width:100% !important;} 
