

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


(Potential) Income Alert: 4 Singapore Companies That Just Raised Dividends 




Guest Contributor


12th September 2019 

You can contribute your thoughts like Guest here.


3 min readEarlier last month, we looked at three companies that increased their interim dividends in their respective quarters. Here, let’s explore four more companies that have made investors cheer lately.
Disclaimer: This is not a sponsored post. Opinions expressed in the article should not be taken as investment advice. Please do your own due diligence.
Note: Share prices are correct as of time of writing (5 September 2019)

AEM Holdings Ltd

AEM Holdings Ltd (SGX: AWX) is involved in the designing and manufacturing of equipment and precision components for the semiconductor, solar and smart card industries.

For its latest second quarter, AEM’s revenue increased by 34.8% year-on-year to S$97.9 million as deliveries to its main customer grew. Meanwhile, net profit surged 65.4% to S$15.7 million, and with that, its interim dividend climbed 33.3% to S$0.02 per share, up from S$0.015 per share a year ago.
At AEM’s current share price of S$1.08, it has a trailing dividend yield of 3.6%.
ComfortDelGro Corporation Ltd

ComfortDelGro Corporation Ltd (SGX: C52) is one of the world’s biggest land transport companies, with operations in countries such as Singapore, Australia, and the UK. ComfortDelGro is also the majority owner of two other Singapore-listed companies – SBS Transit Ltd and VICOM Limited.
Its 2019 interim dividend grew 3.4% to S$0.045 per share, up from S$0.0435 per share given out a year ago. The increase came on the back of second-quarter revenue and net profit growing 4.2% and 1.2%, respectively, year-on-year. The growth in the top line was largely due to contributions from acquisitions made last year and robust growth in its public transport services business, which SBS Transit is a part of.
At ComfortDelGro’s latest share price of S$2.44, it sports a trailing dividend yield of 4.4%.
SBS Transit Ltd

SBS Transit (SGX: S61) provides bus and rail services in Singapore. Just like its parent, SBS Transit also upped its interim dividend. The transport outfit’s 2019 interim dividend per share climbed to S$0.0715, an increase of 23.3% from S$0.058 one year back.
For SBS Transit’s 2019 second-quarter, top-line rose 3.9% year-on-year to S$358.5 million thanks to higher revenue from both its business segments of public transport services and other commercial services. Meanwhile, net profit surged 24.5% to S$24.2 million.
At SBS Transit’s current share price of S$4.05, it has a trailing dividend yield of 3.5%.
VICOM Limited

VICOM Limited (SGX: V01) is Singapore’s leading provider of inspection and technical testing services. VICOM joins ComfortDelGro and SBS Transit to round off the list of companies that increased their dividends.
For its 2019 second quarter, VICOM’s revenue improved 3.7% year-on-year to S$25.6 million while its net profit climbed 4.9% to S$6.6 million. With that, VICOM was able to increase its latest interim dividend by 5.3%, from 13.46 Singapore cents last year to 14.11 Singapore cents in the second quarter of 2019.
At VICOM’s latest share price of S$7.17, it has a trailing dividend yield of 5.2%, excluding any special dividend. Including the special dividend already dished out in the 2018 fourth-quarter, the yield soars to 6.4%.
Want More In-Depth Analysis And Discussion?
Why not check out Seedly’s QnA and participate in the lively discussion surrounding stocks like AEM Holdings Ltd(SGX: AWX), ComfortDelGro Corporation Ltd (SGX: C52) and many more!
Stock Discussion on AEM Holdings Ltd
Stock Discussion on ComfortDelGro Corporation Ltd

Seedly Guest Contributor: The Motley Fool

For our Stocks Analysis, the Seedly team worked closely with The Motley Fool, who is an expert in the field, to curate unbiased, non-sponsored content to add value back to our readers.
The Motley Fool offers stock market and investing information, offering people suggestions on how to take control of their money and make better financial decisions.
The Motley Fool Singapore primarily covers the Singapore market, though we also bring investing news from around the world. We also host a range of educational content, written for everyday people. We feel that the best person to make your financial decisions is you, and we want to help you take control of your own money. The Motley Fool also champions shareholder values and advocates tirelessly for the individual investor.
If you have any questions on the mentioned stocks, feel free to discuss them with the Seedly Community here.
Read other articles by The Motley Fool:

How Does Jumbo Group Ltd Make Money?
4 Singapore Stocks With Growing Dividends To Consider For Your Retirement Portfolio
These 3 Companies Could Multiply Your Wealth Over Time
How To Build A Growth Or Dividend Portfolio With S$50,000
2 Singapore Blue-Chip Shares With Higher Dividend Yield Than Straits Times Index
Bad News: Investors Should Avoid SPH Shares
Which Is The Better Dividend Stock: DBS Group Or UOB?
8 Key Numbers To Understand CapitaLand Mall Trust Better
Ascendas REIT Vs Mapletree Industrial Trust: Which Is The Better Buy?
Singtel Vs Starhub: Which Stock Is The Better Buy?



Whether you love or hate our content... WE WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU THINK! 

Comments
#wpdevar_comment_1 span,#wpdevar_comment_1 iframe{width:100% !important;} 
