

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


READ ME FIRST: Your Personal Finance Journey Starts With This Article 




Ming Feng


2nd June 2018 

A stint in Bloomberg gifted me with a beer belly, which only grew larger when I moved on to become a Professional Trader. Now I turn caffeine into digestible finance-related content. You can contribute your thoughts like Ming Feng here.


5 min readStart Making Smarter Personal Finance Decisions Today!
The first step towards financial literacy is ALWAYS the hardest.
But rest assured that you are not alone.
Seedly is here to help.
Think of this as a Personal Finance 101: Everything School Didn’t Teach Or Prepare You For.

Topics To Learn More About
There is always a first for everything.
Here is a list of firsts when it comes to personal finance:


If Reading About Personal Finance Bores You…
Why not watch an episode of SeedlyTV, where Kenneth and Xinyi from Seedly cover the basics of finance that is applicable to everyone?

SeedlyTV EP01: A Beginner’s Guide to Personal Finance

What Should I Do With My First Pay Cheque?
Getting your first paycheque is probably the best feeling ever.
You no longer have to rely on your parents to give you an allowance and you can finally buy whatever you want.
OR SHOULD YOU?
Before you start spending your hard-earned money, you need to learn about allocating your monthly salary.

Here’re some ways to manage your monthly salary, budget better, and get out of debt fast!

Working Adults: How To Allocate Your Monthly Salary?
A Comprehensive Guide: What To Do With Your First Pay?
Hacks To Clear Your Debts Fast And Effectively
Pay Off Your Debts: Schemes That Help You Get Out Of Debt
6 Steps To Repaying Your Student Loan

Tools to help you make smarter personal finance decisions:

The Ultimate Consumer Journey Guide: Tools To Help You Choose The Best Financial Product
Real User Reviews Platform on Financial Products
Calculators That Take Away The Stress In Personal Finance
Personal Finance Community To Discuss Personal Finance Questions

Back To Top

 Choosing The Best Savings Account And Credit Cards
The most immediate thing to do upon getting your first paycheque should be opening a savings account that gives you the best possible interest rate.
The tedious part of this process is that as banks are competing against one another, they end up with too many terms and conditions which ultimately end up confusing every normal Singaporeans.

These content can help you get rid of this problem on savings account:

Cheat Sheet: Best Savings Accounts For Student
Cheat Sheet: Best Savings Accounts In Singapore For Working Adult

Tools to help you choose the best savings account:

Real User Reviews Platform on Savings Account In Singapore
Best Savings Account Calculator In Singapore

While getting on the right savings account can help one earn extra interest on his savings, proper use of credit cards can help one save even more!

These content can help you choose the best credit cards:

Which should you choose? Cashback vs Miles
Cheat Sheet: Best Credit Cards For Students
The Ultimate Cheatsheet: Best Cashback Credit Cards For Working Adult
Cheat Sheet: What Is The Best Miles Cards For Working Adults
Best Credit Cards To Use Overseas

Tools to help you choose the best credit cards:

Real User Reviews On Credit Cards

Back To Top

Getting your first insurance. What insurance coverage should you be getting?
There is no one-size fits all solution to getting sufficient coverage for yourself.
Hence, it is important to understand your own needs and how much are you willing to spend on coverage before getting your insurance policy.

In this section, we list out insurance guides and content that will come in handy when looking to get your first insurance.

Working Adults: What Are The Key Insurance Policies You Should Get In Singapore?
Working Adults: 4 Frequently Asked Insurance Questions

Content on Health Insurance

Singaporean’s Ultimate Integrated Shield Plan Comparison, Am I On The Best Plan?
Integrated Shield Plan Rider Comparison: How Can I Cover Myself More?

Content On Life Insurance

The Working Adult Guide: Term Life vs Whole Life Insurance. Which Should I Get?
Working Adults: The Ultimate Guide To Understanding Your Endowment Plan
Should You Cancel Your Aviva MINDEF/MHA Group Insurance After Your Ord? 

Back To Top

Making Your First Investment
To determine if you are ready to embark on your investment journey, here’s a “Should-I-Invest” checklist for you.

This section aims to help Singaporeans get started on their investment journey by providing sufficient knowledge on investing.
Investing should never be a rash decision. One should get to know his financial health and his investing mindset such as risk preference better. Below are some articles to read up while understanding your personal investing mindset.

Working Adults: When Should I Begin Investing?
Working Adults: Should I Pick Dividend or Growth Investing?
Should I Invest A Small Sum Regularly Or A Big Sum At One Go?
Age vs Risk Profile: What Investments Should You Be Holding?
3 Common Investment Methods: DIY vs Active vs Passive Funds
Best Investments In Singapore That Caters To Every Risk Profile, For Short, Medium and Long-Term Investors
Cheat Sheet: What Are The Common Investment Products In Singapore?

Now that you are ready, it is time to open that CDP account or get on a brokerage:

CDP vs Custodian Account? Which Should I Use and Why?
Step-by-step Guide: Opening A CDP and Stock Trading/ Brokerage Account In Singapore
Ultimate Cheatsheet: Cheapest Stock Trading/ Brokerage House In Singapore
Real User Reviews On Online Brokerage 

Content on Singapore Savings Bond:

Step-by-step Guide To Investing In Your First Singapore Savings Bond
Keep Calm And Invest In Singapore Savings Bond (SSB)

Content on Fund Investing:

How To Read A Fund Factsheet?

Content on Stocks Investing:

A Singaporean’s Guide To Buying Stocks
4 Forces That Move A Stock Price
10 Stocks To Buy In The Next Market Crash
Does A High P/E Ratio Mean That The Stock Market Is Overvalued?

Content on Regular Savings Plan:
Kicking off with a Regular Savings Plan helps cultivate a habit of investing and set aside a portion of your salary automatically. It is a good way to force yourself to save should you be a spendthrift by nature.

Working Adults: Easiest Ways To Invest A Monthly Sum For Beginners
Which Regular Savings Plan Is The Cheapest? POSB vs OCBC vs POEMS vs Maybank Kim Eng

Content on Exchange Traded Funds Investing:

How To Choose The Right Exchange Traded Fund (ETF) To Invest In?
STI ETF: A Simple Way To Invest In Singapore’s Top 30 Companies

Content on Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) Investing:
If you are looking to add REITs to your investment portfolio, here are some articles that can help you out.

Working Adults: Guide to REITs Investing In Singapore
How To Choose The Right REITs To Invest In?
The Ultimate Review Of All The REITs In Singapore And Here’s How You Can Learn To Invest.

Alternative Investments: P2P Lending Platforms, Cryptocurrencies and Robo-Advisors

P2P Lending Platforms Comparison
Robo-Advisor Comparison
A Quick Guide: Cryptocurrencies and Factors Affecting The Price
Investing In Luxury Watches

Tools To Help You Get Started On Your Investment Journey

Seedly’s Guide: Courses To Guide You On Your Investment Journey
The Complete List: Investment Portfolio Tracking Apps and Platforms

Back To Top

Getting Your First property

For most Singaporeans, getting a property is going to be their first big-ticket purchase. While the process can be quite an experience and stressful, nothing beats a go-to place to get all the information.

Answering Singaporean’s Question On: EC vs BTO
A Guide To Buying Your First Property In Singapore: BTO vs EC vs Resale
We Answer 10 Commonly Asked Questions On Getting Your First Property

Content on getting your first BTO:

The Checklist You Need To Applying For Your First BTO

Content on Housing Loan:

Bank Loan vs HDB Loan, Which Is Better?
The Ultimate Compilation of Housing/Mortgage Loans In Singapore

Content on Renovation:

Interior Design Experts: Cost of Renovating A HDB Flat and Tips To Save Money On Renovation

Back To Top

Making Even Smarter Personal Financial Decisions On Lifestyle Choices
While it is important to save, invest, get protected with insurance coverage and etc… There is more to that when it comes to personal finance.
You could also relook your daily and monthly expenses to find hacks and ways to save even more.
I mean, who would want to pay more for something right?
Save On Your Monthly Bills


Cheapest SIM Only Mobile Plans In Singapore: Data vs Price Comparison
Which Electricity Retailer Is The Cheapest In Singapore?
Which Is The Best Fibre Broadband Plan?
Ultimate Guide: Supermarket’s Price Comparison
What Is The Best Rewards Programme For Groceries?

Save On Entertainment

Which Cinema Has The Cheapest Movie Tickets?
Happy Birthday To Me, What Can I Get For FREE?

Save On Food

Maximise Your Ma La Xiang Guo Order
Ultimate Compilation Of Best High Tea Promos
Top Halal Buffets Promotions In Singapore For All Budgets
Best Dim Sum Buffet Promotions In Singapore
Complete List Of 1-For-1 Buffet Promotions

Tools to help you:

Real User Reviews On Mobile Plans

Back To Top


Whether you love or hate our content... WE WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU THINK! 

Comments
#wpdevar_comment_1 span,#wpdevar_comment_1 iframe{width:100% !important;} 
