

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


The Ultimate Guide To Investing In Singapore 




Tracy Lim


25th June 2019 

SHOW ME THE MONEY. You can contribute your thoughts like Tracy here.


2 min readPersonal finance involves managing your Income, Spending, Insurance, Savings and Investments.
If you are reading this now, you are probably looking to invest to grow your money.
With the core inflation rate* at 1.3% in Singapore, investing sounds more attractive than the meagre 0.05% interest earned in your savings account.
(*According to MAS, Core Inflation is a better measure of underlying price pressures in the economy (vs. headline inflation). It excludes private road transport and accommodation costs, which are subject to short-term fluctuations.)
Who can Invest?
You can, if you check all these points!

Have no debt
Have spare cash (i.e after accounting for 6 months of savings funds)
Possess investing knowledge
Ready to do your own due diligence

Disclaimer: Investing can be highly risky. Be prepared that your capital can turn to zero if the company goes bust.
You may have stumbled upon some financial blogs online. Or you may have read some of Seedly’s blog posts and feel inspired to invest. Regardless of how promising a certain investment may sound, please always, ALWAYS do your own due diligence.
But if you’re ready for that, you are also ready to invest and get returns higher than the inflation rate (and even more)!

How To Open A CDP Account & Choose A Brokerage
Learn what is a CDP account and how to open one. Also, get answers to which is the best brokerage for you.

CDP vs Custodian Account? Which Should I Use and Why?
Step-by-step Guide: Opening A CDP and Stock Trading/ Brokerage Account In Singapore
Ultimate Cheatsheet: Cheapest Stock Trading/ Brokerage House In Singapore
Real User Reviews On Online Brokerage

Click on me to go to the section!






Click on me to go to the section!
Guide to Singapore Savings Bond
For: Low risk; Individuals who are risk-averse and want high liquidity.
If you want low risks but want to still beat inflation, Singapore Savings Bond is for you.

Guide to Singapore Savings Bond and How to Buy

Guide to Exchange Traded Funds
For: Medium risk; Individuals who want to diversify at lower costs.
An Exchange Traded Fund (ETF) usually tracks an index or a pool of many companies. Investing in an ETF gives you a small stake in many different companies.
For example, investing in one lot of the STI ETF is more affordable than investing in 30 different companies individually.

How To Choose The Right Exchange Traded Fund (ETF) To Invest In?
STI ETF: A Simple Way To Invest In Singapore’s Top 30 Companies
A Dummies Guide To Investing In Ireland-Domiciled S&P 500 ETFs

Guide to Regular Savings Plan
For: Medium risk; Individuals who want to cultivate the habit of saving monthly.

Working Adults: Easiest Ways To Invest A Monthly Sum For Beginners
Which Regular Shares Savings (RSS) Plan Is The Cheapest? DBS vs OCBC vs PhillipCapital

Guide to Stocks Investing
For: High Risk; Individuals who are risk-seeking and want more than just to beat inflation.
Common Myth: “High Risk, High Returns”?
Truth: High Risks ≠ High Returns.
Higher risks can POTENTIALLY give you higher returns, but know that it is not always an equal sign. The potential for upside returns is also the potential for downside returns.
Be prepared that your capital can turn to zero if the company goes bust. But of course, if it goes well, your initial capital can also grow to a lot more.
How To Read Financial Statements
The first step to understanding a stock? Learning how to read their financial statements. Here is a walk-through of the 3 financial statements, simplified with explanations using a fictitious company, Seedly Chicken Rice!

How to Read the Income Statement 
How to Read the Balance Sheet
How to Read the Cash Flow Statement

How To Read Financial Ratios

Profit Margin, Dividend Yield & ROE, ROA, ROIC
P/B, P/E ratios & Quick Ratio, D/E Ratio, Interest Coverage Ratio

Value Investing

Value Investing: 5 Things To Look Out For In A Company

Guide to Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs)
For: High Risk; Individuals who are risk-seeking and want to receive good distribution yields.

Step-By-Step Guide To Analysing REITs
The Ultimate Review Of All The REITs In Singapore And Here’s How You Can Learn To Invest

Guide to Alternative Investments: Robo-Advisors, P2P Lending and Cryptocurrencies
For: Very high risk-takers.
Alternative investments like peer-to-peer lending are generally very risky and may have high default rates.

P2P Lending Platforms Comparison
Robo-Advisor Comparison
A Quick Guide: Cryptocurrencies and Factors Affecting The Price
Investing In Luxury Watches



Whether you love or hate our content... WE WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU THINK! 

Comments
#wpdevar_comment_1 span,#wpdevar_comment_1 iframe{width:100% !important;} 
