

< BACK TO MAIN BLOG


Home Caregiving Grant: Here’s How You Can Apply To Receive A Monthly Cash Payout Of $200 




Rachel Yeo


30th September 2019 

Breaking down complicated financial pieces into idiot-proof articles. You can contribute your thoughts like Rachel here.


1 min readThe applications for the Home Caregiving Grants opens tomorrow (1 Oct). Caregivers will be able to tap on a new S$200 monthly grant to offset costs of taking care of caregiving expenses, a move announced by Parliament on February this year.
The new grant, a monthly cash payout, will be paid to eligible care recipients, who can also choose to nominate a caregiver to receive it. This grant replaces the Foreign Domestic Worker (FDW) Grant from October 2019, and is intended to help support your loved ones with at least permanent moderate disability
Home Caregiving Grant (HCG), a monthly cash payout of $200, can be used to defray the costs of caregiving expenses, such as the costs of eldercare and caregiver support services in the community, or hiring of a Foreign Domestic Worker (FDW).
Do I Qualify For The Home Caregiving Grant?
Here are the criteria you have to meet to qualify for the grant:

1. Means-tested

For you to qualify for the Home Caregiving Grant, your monthly income per person is $2,800 or less. For households without income, the annual value of property* of your household has to be $13,000 or less.
*annual value of property refers to the estimated annual rent a property can fetch if it were to be rented out.


2. Citizenship

You need to be a Singapore Citizen or a Permanent Resident (with a parent, child or spouse who is a Singapore Citizen).


3. Not in a residential long-term care institution (e.g. nursing home)
4. Lives in Singapore


5. At least permanent moderate disability


The following is applicable for people who always require some assistance with at least 3 of the 6 Activities of Daily Living (ADLs) as shown below:

Source: Agency For Integrated Care
How Do I Apply?
Source: Giphy
According to the Ministry of Health, those who are already receiving the FDW Grant will be automatically enrolled onto the HCG, and need not apply. For those who wish to sign up for this scheme, here’s a step by step guide on how to do it:



Steps Description Details 




1Allow computation of Means Test Results.  Visit the MOH Household Check website to provide consent for computation of your Means Test Results, if you have not done so previously.


2Fill up the application form Download this Application Form  and complete it. 


3Undergo Disability Assessment Visit a General Practitioner or arrange with your care provider to obtain a Functional Assessment Report (FAR) . The cost of an assessment may vary. Please contact your preferred doctor for more information. 

[Note: If you are also applying for IDAPE, you do not need to obtain the FAR. Visit an IDAPE-approved assessor instead to obtain an Assessor Statement.] 



4Submit your HCG Application Documents to AIC.
You can do so via post, or email your documents to [email protected] Send your completed application to this address: 
Agency for Integrated Care 
Singapore Post Centre Post Office 
P.O. Box 1173 
Singapore 914040 


After Application Submission AIC will inform you of the application outcome in writing. 

If your application is approved, AIC will deposit $200 into the nominated bank account on a monthly basis. 

Contact:1800-650-6060 if you have not received your payment by the end of the month. 




How Is The Home Caregiving Grant Different From The FDW Grant?



 Home Caregiving Grant (HCG)Foreign Domestic Worker Grand (FDW)




Monthly Payout $200$120 


Criteria Similar Criteria Similar Criteria. Except FDW must attend AIC-approved FDW Grant caregiver’s training.

Care recipients who are Permanent Residents have to be age 65 and above to qualify. 


Coverage Can be used to hire foreign domestic workers, and also on other things such as: 
- Caregiving expenses 
- Cost of home and community based services. 
- Transportation 
- Medical Appointments. Only used to offeset cost of hiring a foreign domestic worker 


Other Benefits Care recipients who qualify can choose to nominate their caregiver to receive the HCG. 

Complements severe disability schemes like ElderShield and CareShield Life, by providing support earlier

HCG will be available at an earlier and less severe stage of disability, when compared to the criteria in disability schemes such as ElderShield or CareShield Life. -



Providing Better Support For Those In Need
With Singapore’s aging population, there is a need for greater awareness on the different subsidies and help available for different groups of individuals. For those worried about retirement, here are some subsidies and help you need to know of, for low income elderly in Singapore.



Whether you love or hate our content... WE WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU THINK! 

Comments
#wpdevar_comment_1 span,#wpdevar_comment_1 iframe{width:100% !important;} 
